Welcome back.
It's time now to talk to you about
the components that we will be using for
this particular system we plan on building
in part two or later on in this course.
Here we go.
Now I just want to remind you that
these components that
we're going to show you,
we're just showing you kind of an over
all characteristic of the components.
You will be able to find
links to all of these stuff
that they we're going to show
you later on after the videos.
But please remember that you can
always go out and search for
components or devices with
these similar characteristics.
Now you might not find that exact
solar panel is available to you,
maybe a better version is available for
you and even cheaper, you never know.
By the time you're building your
system you just never know.
Also if you want to build something
more powerful, do that too.
So here we go, let's dive in here.
Now you can see here,
we're going to kind of follow the path
that we did in the chart earlier right?
So we started with the solar panels.
Here's the solar panels
that we chose to use.
In general we were
restricted not only by what
we wanted to power the load of
our system but also size, right?
We wanted to make our system
portable enough to roll around.
And we'll talk about
the case we use later but
these panels were chosen because we
wanted them to fit on the case and
we also wanted them to fit in our case for
transporting reasons.
Now these panels, Eco-Worthy Solar Panels,
you can see some other characteristics
there, Power 10 Watts,
open circuit voltage,
that's what the OC stands for, 20.6 Volts.
Short circuit current which is 0.69.
Now, if we wanted to for example, put
two of these panels in parallel, right.
Well we would be adding two
of the currents, right.
So then if we put one alone then we would
have 0.69 amps provided to our
charge controller which comes next.
But if we put 2 in parallel you
could see there ISC Total, so
I short circuit total would be 1.38 Amps.
You would add them because
they're in parallel.
Same can be said if we added
the voltage in series,
so we put two of these panels in series,
then open circuit
voltage would add and
we would end up with 21 or 41.2.
So, 41.2 Volts, open circuit voltage.
All the rules have circuit
analysis supply to this as well.
Now, we wanted to pair this or
at least stay within the boundary of our
Charge Controller,
the brain of the system.
And, the panels feeding to
the Charge Controller and
look what the Charge Controller
is capable of.
So, Charge Controller is capable of
a open circuit voltage of
a max of 40 volts, right?
So that being said, we almost couldn't
put these two panels and pair in series.
Sorry.
because if we put them in series we'll
be pushing that threshold very close.
Now, the charge controller is
capable of 30 amps short circuit.
So, we are way under the limit
on the short circuit current.
That means that if we wanted to,
we could put a bunch more of these
panels in parallel and
beef up that amperage.
All right.
Cool.
So that's kind of some of the
characteristics of this charge controller.
We wanted it mainly because
it had the built in display.
You can find I think one was like $32 or
something around there.
You can find a lot cheaper
charge controllers with
right around the same characteristics for
$10, $9.
And then you can buy a little
separate digital voltage display or
current display, and
you can make your system that way as well.
All right.
So
next one, next component,
we have the battery and the inverter.
Now, on the right side,
you see the battery?
This was tricky to choose.
And in fact, we reached a lot of problems
because the batteries in general,
you want more amp hours right and
you want to still keep it at 12 volts.
So, the amp hours allow you to run
the system for a longer period of time.
But the more amp hours,
the bigger the battery,
the heavier the dimensions get out
of control and you can no longer
use a smaller case anymore especially
if you want to store your panels.
You want to keep that in mind
when choosing your battery.
You might not need your system to be
powered for that long so maybe you could
choose less amp hours, keep your voltage
at 12 and choose less amp hours.
The possibilities are endless on your end.
We chose to use this one and we went
with just a little bit of a bigger case,
a rolling case that you'll see later.
After the charge controller
feeds into the batteries,
you have the inverter that then boosts up
your voltage and allows you to use many
of your household items that you might
want to take with you with the system.
So, our inverter right there is
Smart &Cool Inverter, 12 volts DC
and the output is 110 volts AC.
So there, you can see that
this inverter 350 watts, is capable of
I would say almost anything you would
want in your little portable system.
I don't think, unless you want to power
a microwave or an air conditioner or
something, you're not going to
get that out of this inverter.
Either you're going to system,
you're going to need more batteries,
you're going to need so much more stuff.
So you're just keeping to your mobile
surveillance dragging board 410C
work station.
I think 350 watts should be enough.
You can probably get 400, maybe 500,
that'll allow you to do
a little more stuff.
But then you're going to want to
bring a bigger battery so
that you can power the stuff longer.
It's all up to you.
Again, so many variables for
you to have fun with.
So now that we've chosen all those
main core components where are we
going to put the stuff?
Right here.
Well this is what we picked out.
So a DeWalt rolling tool case.
You can see kind of like an example
of the size that it is up there.
We stepped up the size we originally
wanted to carry it around with us.
But instead decided to make it a rolling
case because, again I've told you,
the batteries and the panels, we wanted
everything to be stored in there.
[COUGH] Essentially what we're going to do
is we're going to mount the panels on top
of the case.
All of the circuitry will be in
the bottom end of the case or
the bottom part of the case.
And then you'll have a layer on top for
your workstation.
And the open up, the side that opens up,
you'll have a monitor
in a way to monitor also
the charge of your station.
So you'll have access to your charge
controller which is essentially the core
component that you read off,
how your system is doing, but
you will also have access to
a small screen that the DragonBoard
we'll be using in order for you to kind
of work on your DragonBoard, of course.
Sensors and cameras and
all of that other cool surveillance stuff.
Well, we're going to try doing as
much as possible with that, but
we are also going to leave all
the choices that you might be
able to kind of switch this around and
make it even cooler up to you.
So we will provide some examples but
in the end,
the mobile surveillance system
is your own brainchild.
[LAUGH] So go wild,
do what you can with that and I'm pretty
sure we'll see a lot of really cool stuff.
Talking a little more about this case,
I just want to make sure that you kind of
get an ideas to why we chose this.
The dimensions as you can see up there.
I'm sorry it's in inches.
I know the rest of the world
is in the metric system,
but we're still in inches over here.
So conversion,
one inch is 2.54 centimeters.
You can kind of do the math there.
We wanted weatherproof.
So as you can see it's water resistance.
It's capable of, in the bottom right,
I'm reading the bottom right.
It's water resistant.
It's capable of 88 pounds.
2.2 pounds is 1 kilogram.
So it's capable of holding
enough weight for us.
Essentially we can load in our battery,
load in all our components.
We can load in maybe a few extra things,
the DragonBoard,
the screen and and a tray that we need and
we can just roll it away with no problem
at all, nothing is going to break.
It's lockable and
essentially you can see there that it has
pretty much everything we need in a case.
We are hoping that you like our choice,
and
again feel free to choose anything
that you are comfortable with.
Now just a quick little anecdote
from us is that while we
were choosing our components make
sure you have a tape measure,
make sure you are constantly
measuring everything,
because you are going to need to make sure
you, before you order anything make sure
your components are going to fit nice and
snug and organized inside of your case.
This is a problem because you're also
going to to have to take into account
the cables, the connectors, the wiring,
the positioning of everything and
make sure measure twice, cut once.
Essentially measure twice, order once, and
you will have the right
components that you need.
Most of the time when you are ordering,
there's sheets like this that
show you all the dimensions.
So, you should be okay with that.
I would recommend buying the case first,
and then from there building
your system as you need it.
So, as you've seen, these are all
the components that we will be using,
there will be links provided to you.
I will also be providing
to you the link for
a particular five inch monitor that
we will be using in the system.
I would suggest checking out all of
your options wherever you are and
making this kit, this system, your own.
Because that's what
the caption is all about.
Making it your own and
using this as a guideline.
So we will be providing for you a lot of
really cool examples throughout
this especially in part two.
But just keep that in mind that we will
look forward to seeing your ideas and
your experiments.
So, we'll see you in the next video.
Thank you.